five hacks for small businesses to
outrank larger ones how can you compete
with those big guns when it comes to SEO
if they're already have a better domain
of 30 than you and they have the
fingerprints all over the best search
queries in your vertical it can seem
like it's impossible to outrank them
right well no that's wrong you can
outrank up now it may seem like they
have unlimited resources strong branding
and an audience that's deeply familiar
with their work but that doesn't mean
David can't beat Goliath and the truth
is you absolutely can still compete you
just have to be smart about it that
means not just going after the biggest
most important keywords within your
industry that has major players already
sitting at the top because if you do
that it's going to take a very long time
you're going to be playing their game
and it's gonna be harder to win what you
need to do is make them play your game
remember these are Big brands that we're
talking about here massive corporations
and although they're stocked with
resources they're not agile and if you
look at the output that they produce for
how many people they have it's actually
not that much when you actually look at
as output per person because there's a
lot of politics there's a lot of things
that just make things move slowly let's
dive into five ways that your small
business can supersize your SEO strategy
and maybe even compete with some of the
biggest names in your industry hack
number one focus on ux or user
experience
think SEO and ux don't go hand in hand
think again according to Google's head
ex of web spam Matt cutts he once had
all those kinds of things that are
generally good for users that's probably
worth a lot more of your time and
attention than thinking about the amount
of paid rank or anchor text that'll flow
from multiple links on a page Google
pays attention not just to keywords and
links but how people click on your
website and if your ux is terrible you
simply will not rank really high some
important aspects to keep in mind when
you're talking about ux is is my website
credible
is it professionally designed and up to
date
is there content that my audience can
quickly read to figure out if they want
to stick around on my website or not are
my prices transparent are my products
and services described in a clear and
uncluttered way
check off those from your list or hire a
third party to perform a ux audit
technically my Ad Agency NP digital can
do that for you if you're interested as
well hack number two work on your social
presence
two tips in a row don't even include SEO
strange right except both ux and social
media can play a central role in your
SEO just not in your traditional way
just think about it this way those big
name competitors might have a monopoly
on the major keywords that you want to
rank for but anyone can go viral
building your brand on social media can
still drive a ton of traffic to your
website and branding is one of the most
important factors in SEO when someone
sees or interacts with your website or
brand or your copy or your videos
it helps reinforce your brand and they
call it the rule of seven it takes
roughly seven interactions for you to
generate more evangelists and Loyalists
when it comes to your brand as an exeu
of Google once said Eric Schmidt he once
said brands are the solution not the
problem brands are how you sort out the
Cesspool so the bigger your brand the
easier it will be for you to rank on
social media and this will help your
brand get out there I post on social
media all the time Facebook Instagram
Tech talk and every time I do I make
sure to incorporate my agency's websites
into the mix in some way whether it's a
link in my bio or feature in the actual
post itself or just mentioning it like I
did on this video why because even
though it's not a keyword or a backlink
driven strategy it's still driving
traffic to my website because then
people start going directly to you which
helps people get to know my company's
brand name NP digital and we start
getting literally thousands of people
searching for our Ad Agency on a monthly
basis may not seem like a lot but when
you're dealing with Fortune 500
companies each search really does help
and the best part about social media is
that you can quickly pivot to another
platform if one of them isn't working as
effectively as you would like it hack
number three use canonical tags need to
avoid duplicate content it's an absolute
SEO most and the big companies over time
tend to create a lot of content on the
same topic over and over and over again
which causes Google to be ensure which
page to rank for a popular keyword for
example if I have a page on the
beginner's guide to SEO and then I have
another post on a guide on how to get
started with SEO both are pretty much
the same thing they're talking about how
to do SEO or get started if you're a
beginner so Google doesn't know which
one to rank you want to use Rel
canonical tags to get rid of your
duplicate content on your website and
ideally you want to be combining the
pages that have similar content into one
URL and do a 301 redirect this will just
help you generate more traffic in the
long run
hack number four optimize your local
listings remember what I said earlier
about how almost half SEO searches are
local ones that just goes to show how
important local SEO is a huge part of it
is to create local search listings
especially for small businesses remember
you can't just go from Big Industry head
keywords that everyone is searching for
from day one focus on what you can
control your local listings this should
include high quality images up-to-date
hours extensive product listing and
specific creative content that reflects
your brand and what you have to offer
any inconsistencies with your local SEO
listing can create issues for you not
just with Google crawling and listing
your page but with your audience
actually not being able to find you I
see a ton of super small businesses
struggle with this inconsistent naming
wrong address stuff like that it's super
easy to fix and it's preventable and you
shouldn't even have these issues in the
first place and best of all you want to
get a lot of reviews the more five-star
reviews you get the more likely people
are to click on your website and even if
your company isn't local to one specific
region you can create localized pages to
go after all the major cities where your
clients are hack number five write
detailed content and refresh it often I
want to emphasize the refresher often
you want to stand out in your Niche
becoming a thought leader is hard work
but it can pay off big and writing a lot
of content especially long form content
with high quality keywords and links is
essential to get ahead but you also need
to refresh that content on a regular
basis that's what a lot of big companies
don't do we see this at our Ad Agency NP
digital a lot of the big companies that
hire us they create new content but they
forget to refresh the old ones and then
they're like wow we're refreshing them
we're getting way more traffic and it's
much more affordable and it's much
better Roi and it's like yeah you need
to focus on that but don't just write
massive long-form articles and assume
this is what Google wants and if you
refresh them it's going to be fine
remember Google prioritizes Experience
so not just refreshing content but
getting your message out as short and as
quick as possible sometimes that could
be in 100 words sometimes that could be
in 500 words sometimes that needs to be
five or ten thousand words if your
content is so long that it actually
dissuades users from clicking Google
won't care how many keywords you shove
in your content it needs to be amazing
content that's most friendliest for
users and is up to date your sweet spot
should however be as many words that you
need to get your message across or as
there's little words that you need to
get your message across for people to be
like huh I got what I need I don't have
any more questions I don't need to
search about that topic again that's how
you know you've won and you've done a
good job and if you keep refreshing your
content although I mentioned this time
and time again it can really get you a
lot of traffic
now I also want you to check out your
competitions content about similar
keywords and make sure you're trying to
find new ways to outrank them and assert
yourself as an industry leader now that
you know these five hacks you should be
able to really take off when it comes to
SEO and be these big companies that have
bigger Brands than you trust me I've
done the networks we do it at our at
agency NP digital for both large
companies and even startups to mid-size
companies so if you need help with this
check out our Ad Agency if you have any
questions leave a comment below if you
enjoyed the video like it share it tell
the people about it thanks for watching